README.md, before:

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management-api/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=DYVHRRP1B1)](https://codecov.io/github/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management-api)
[![CircleCI](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/img/gh/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management-api/tree/main.svg?style=svg)](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/redirect/gh/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management-api/tree/main)

# hmpps-activities-management-api

This services provide access to the endpoints for the management of prisoner related activities. The main client is the
[activities management UI](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management) located here.

This service requires a postgresql database.

## Building the project

Tools required:

* JDK v19+
* Kotlin (Intellij)
* docker
* docker-compose
* AWS cli

## Install gradle

`$ ./gradlew`

`$ ./gradlew clean build` 

## Running the service

Start up the docker dependencies using the docker-compose file in the `hmpps-activities-management-api` service.

There is a script to help, which sets local profiles, port and DB connection properties to the
values required.

`$ ./run-local.sh`

Or, to run with default properties set in the docker-compose file

`$ docker-compose pull && docker-compose up`

Or, to use default port and properties

`$ SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=dev ./gradlew bootRun`

Ports

| Service                   | Port |  
|---------------------------|------|
| activities-management-api | 8080 |
| activities-management-db  | 5432 |
| hmpps-auth                | 8090 |
| prison-api                | 8091 |
| prison-api                | 8091 |
| localstack                | 4566 |

To create a Token (local):
```
curl --location --request POST "http://localhost:8081/auth/oauth/token?grant_type=client_credentials" --header "Authorization: Basic $(echo -n {Client}:{ClientSecret} | base64)"
```

To simulate AWS SQS/SNS mode you need to have the localstack container running:

```
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f  docker-compose-localstack.yml up

$ ./run-localstack.sh
```

To list the localstack queue attributes:

```
$ aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 sqs get-queue-attributes --attribute-names All --queue-url http://localhost:4566/000000000000/domainevents-queue
```

To read a message off the queue (if there are any):

```
$ aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 sqs receive-message --queue-url http://localhost:4566/000000000000/domainevents-queue
```

## Swagger v3
Visit Scheduler
```
http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html
```

Export Spec
```
http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs?group=full-api
```

## Running the unit tests

Unit tests mock all external dependencies and can be run with no dependent containers.

`$ ./gradlew test`

## Common gradle tasks

To list project dependencies, run:

```
./gradlew dependencies
``` 

To check for dependency updates, run:
```
./gradlew dependencyUpdates --warning-mode all
```

To run an OWASP dependency check, run:
```
./gradlew clean dependencyCheckAnalyze --info
```

To upgrade the gradle wrapper version, run:
```
./gradlew wrapper --gradle-version=<VERSION>
```

To automatically update project dependencies, run:
```
./gradlew useLatestVersions
```

#### Ktlint Gradle Tasks

To run Ktlint check:
```
./gradlew ktlintCheck
```

To run Ktlint format:
```
./gradlew ktlintFormat
```

To apply ktlint styles to intellij
```
./gradlew ktlintApplyToIdea
```

To register pre-commit check to run Ktlint format:
```
./gradlew ktlintApplyToIdea addKtlintFormatGitPreCommitHook 
```

...or to register pre-commit check to only run Ktlint check:
```
./gradlew ktlintApplyToIdea addKtlintCheckGitPreCommitHook
```

Commit message:

SAA-348: Retrieve and validate prisoners by number from search API

README.md, after:

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management-api/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=DYVHRRP1B1)](https://codecov.io/github/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management-api)
[![CircleCI](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/img/gh/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management-api/tree/main.svg?style=svg)](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/redirect/gh/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management-api/tree/main)

# hmpps-activities-management-api

This services provide access to the endpoints for the management of prisoner related activities. The main client is the
[activities management UI](https://github.com/ministryofjustice/hmpps-activities-management) located here.

This service requires a postgresql database.

## Building the project

Tools required:

* JDK v19+
* Kotlin (Intellij)
* docker
* docker-compose
* AWS cli

## Install gradle

`$ ./gradlew`

`$ ./gradlew clean build` 

## Environment variables

The system client id and secret used to retrieve the OAuth 2.0 Access Token needed for service to service API calls can be set as local environment variables.
This allows API calls made from this service that do not use the caller's token to successfully authenticate.

The process of adding the environment variables to your local development environment varies based on OS and shell used.
For zsh, add the following lines to your `.zprofile` file replacing the text in quotes with the dev client id and secret: 

```
export SYSTEM_CLIENT_ID="<system.client.id>"
export SYSTEM_CLIENT_SECRET="<system.client.secret>"
```

N.B. you must escape any '$' characters with '\$'

## Running the service

Start up the docker dependencies using the docker-compose file in the `hmpps-activities-management-api` service.

There is a script to help, which sets local profiles, port and DB connection properties to the
values required.

`$ ./run-local.sh`

Or, to run with default properties set in the docker-compose file

`$ docker-compose pull && docker-compose up`

Or, to use default port and properties

`$ SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=dev ./gradlew bootRun`

Ports

| Service                   | Port |  
|---------------------------|------|
| activities-management-api | 8080 |
| activities-management-db  | 5432 |
| hmpps-auth                | 8090 |
| prison-api                | 8091 |
| prison-api                | 8091 |
| localstack                | 4566 |

To create a Token (local):
```
curl --location --request POST "http://localhost:8081/auth/oauth/token?grant_type=client_credentials" --header "Authorization: Basic $(echo -n {Client}:{ClientSecret} | base64)"
```

To simulate AWS SQS/SNS mode you need to have the localstack container running:

```
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f  docker-compose-localstack.yml up

$ ./run-localstack.sh
```

To list the localstack queue attributes:

```
$ aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 sqs get-queue-attributes --attribute-names All --queue-url http://localhost:4566/000000000000/domainevents-queue
```

To read a message off the queue (if there are any):

```
$ aws --endpoint-url=http://localhost:4566 sqs receive-message --queue-url http://localhost:4566/000000000000/domainevents-queue
```

## Swagger v3
Visit Scheduler
```
http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html
```

Export Spec
```
http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs?group=full-api
```

## Running the unit tests

Unit tests mock all external dependencies and can be run with no dependent containers.

`$ ./gradlew test`

## Common gradle tasks

To list project dependencies, run:

```
./gradlew dependencies
``` 

To check for dependency updates, run:
```
./gradlew dependencyUpdates --warning-mode all
```

To run an OWASP dependency check, run:
```
./gradlew clean dependencyCheckAnalyze --info
```

To upgrade the gradle wrapper version, run:
```
./gradlew wrapper --gradle-version=<VERSION>
```

To automatically update project dependencies, run:
```
./gradlew useLatestVersions
```

#### Ktlint Gradle Tasks

To run Ktlint check:
```
./gradlew ktlintCheck
```

To run Ktlint format:
```
./gradlew ktlintFormat
```

To apply ktlint styles to intellij
```
./gradlew ktlintApplyToIdea
```

To register pre-commit check to run Ktlint format:
```
./gradlew ktlintApplyToIdea addKtlintFormatGitPreCommitHook 
```

...or to register pre-commit check to only run Ktlint check:
```
./gradlew ktlintApplyToIdea addKtlintCheckGitPreCommitHook
```
